Setup nats multi tenant (#5)
manabie-com/manabie-com.github.io: content/posts/nats-multi-tenant/index.md

+++
date = "2021-12-10T14:28:23+07:00"
author = "duchh"
description = "Write the way to set up nats multi-tenant."
title = "Set up nats multi-tenant in golang"
categories = ["Golang", "Nats-Jetstream"]
tags = ["Golang", "Nats-Jetstream", "Multi-tenant"]
slug = "set-up-nats-multi-tenant-in-golang" 
+++

> ***In this blog post, we will learn how to set up Nats Multi-tenant in golang.***

Reviewer: ```suggestion
***In this blog post, we will learn how to set up NATS Multi-tenancy in golang.***
```
the official website writes it as `NATS` (all cap) so we better follow them too

Reviewer: same for other instances of the nats word

> #### **Nats-Jetstream**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### **NATS-JetStream**
```

Nats has a built-in distributed persistence system called Jetstream which features new functionalities and higher 
qualities of service on top of the base Core NATS functionalities and qualities of service.

> Jetstream was created to solve the problems identified with streaming in technology today. Some technologies address 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jetstream was created to solve the problems identified with streaming technologies today. Some technologies address 
```

> these better than others, but no current streaming technology is truly multi-tenant, horizontally scalable,... Today I just 
> talk about the way set up nats multi-tenant in golang.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
these better than others, but no current streaming technology is truly multi-tenant, horizontally scalable,... Today I will  
talk how we can set up nats multi-tenancy in golang.
```

                            "$JS.API.CONSUMER.*.student.*", # allow user interact with consumer (example: create, delete,...)
                            "$JS.API.CONSUMER.DURABLE.CREATE.student.*", # allow user create consumer queue
                            "$JS.ACK.student.>" # allow user can ack messages in `student` stream
                        ]
                    },
                    subscribe: {
                        allow: [
                            "_INBOX.>"
                        ]
                    }
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

##### **Accounts**

Accounts allow grouping of clients, isolating them from clients in other accounts, thus enabling ***multi-tenant*** in 
the server. In the configuration above we have an account named **A** which has three users ***Admin, Bob and Tom***. We 
can add one or more accounts to the configuration, an account has one or more users.

##### **Users**

User identified by the **user**, the **password**, the **permissions**. Users in the account are simply the minimum number 
of services that must work together to provide some functionality.

##### **Permission**

> NATS has concept [widlcard subject](https://docs.nats.io/nats-concepts/subjects#wildcards) will use a lot in our example, 

Reviewer 2: **widlcard** => wildcard

so you should understand this concept before going next.

Another concept is [Jetstream wire API Reference](https://docs.nats.io/reference/reference-protocols/nats_api_reference), 
you can easily interact with the Jetstream infrastructure programmatically.

In [permissions](https://docs.nats.io/running-a-nats-service/configuration/securing_nats/authorization#permission-map) 

> above we have two section *publish* and *subscribe*. 

Reviewer 2: two section => two sections

n1    | [1] 2021/12/14 08:12:08.710712 [INF] | || | _|  | | \__ \ | | |   / _| / _ \| |\/| |
n1    | [1] 2021/12/14 08:12:08.710714 [INF]  \__/|___| |_| |___/ |_| |_|_\___/_/ \_\_|  |_|
n1    | [1] 2021/12/14 08:12:08.710717 [INF] 
n1    | [1] 2021/12/14 08:12:08.710720 [INF]          https://docs.nats.io/jetstream
n1    | [1] 2021/12/14 08:12:08.710722 [INF] 
n1    | [1] 2021/12/14 08:12:08.710725 [INF] ---------------- JETSTREAM ----------------
n1    | [1] 2021/12/14 08:12:08.710737 [INF]   Max Memory:      4.00 GB
n1    | [1] 2021/12/14 08:12:08.710742 [INF]   Max Storage:     10.00 GB
n1    | [1] 2021/12/14 08:12:08.710745 [INF]   Store Directory: "/data/jetstream"
```

##### **Golang code**
* **Publisher** folder try connect to NATS with user *Bob* then checking and creating streams `student` after that publish
three messages with subject `student.Created`. Go to publisher folder then run command `go run publisher.go`.

```bash
2021/12/14 15:21:02 Student with StudentID:1 has been published
2021/12/14 15:21:02 Student with StudentID:2 has been published
2021/12/14 15:21:02 Student with StudentID:3 has been published
```

> * **Consumer** folder try connect to NATS with user *Tom* then [creating subscription](https://github.com/manabie-com/manabie-com.github.io/blob/a9b1ec1f6b87c3b408516014a06850869c7b30f8/content/posts/nats-multi-tenant/examples/consumer/consumer.go#L29) 

Reviewer: I think we should run the consumers first, because of the `InterestPolicy`. If we run the publisher first here, then all the messages will be gone beforethe subscriber can get them

Reviewer 3: I will change stream's policy is `LimitsPolicy`, we should run publisher first, its can be easier readers to understand

Reviewer: that'll work too, nice!

and processing messages with subject `student.Created`. Go to consumer folder then run command `go run consumer.go`.

```bash
2021/12/14 15:26:15 Student with StudentID:1 has been processed
2021/12/14 15:26:15 Student with StudentID:2 has been processed
2021/12/14 15:26:15 Student with StudentID:3 has been processed
```

> * What's happen when Tom don't have permission to ack messages? Let's test. We will remove `$JS.ACK.student.>` in user 

Reviewer 2: Tom don't => Tom doesn't

        "subscriptions": 2,
        "lang": "go",
        "version": "1.13.0",
        "authorized_user": "Tom",
        "account": "A",
        "subscriptions_list": [
          "_INBOX.pAs3HKEavN4xPgq0R3ISuv.*",
          "_INBOX.KUZs5Iu1AS627v4hxQDEDT"
        ]
      },
      {
        "cid": 16,
        "ip": "172.26.0.1",
        "port": 54208,
        "start": "2021-12-15T02:14:50.121066448Z",
        "last_activity": "2021-12-15T02:14:50.121668124Z",
        "rtt": "602µs",
        "uptime": "0s",
        "idle": "0s",
        "pending_bytes": 0,
        "in_msgs": 0,
        "out_msgs": 0,
        "in_bytes": 0,
        "out_bytes": 0,
        "subscriptions": 1,
        "name": "NATS CLI Version development",
        "lang": "go",
        "version": "1.11.0",
        "authorized_user": "Admin",
        "account": "A",
        "subscriptions_list": [
          "_INBOX.4FRAGOb5MzOIGS1ZsYAtYI"
        ]
      }
    ],
    "in_msgs": 30,
    "out_msgs": 30,
    "in_bytes": 293,
    "out_bytes": 2877,
    "subscriptions": 4
  }
]
```
You can see the result above, we have an account A and three users (Admin, Bob, Tom) are connecting to NATS. NATS say 

> `solating them from clients in other accounts`, so we can test by add account **B** in our configuration then connect NATS-box 

Reviewer 2: solating => isolating
